README.md, before:

# 👨‍🔬 Dominique S. Loyer

[![ORCID](https://img.shields.io/badge/ORCID-0009--0003--9713--7109-green.svg)](https://orcid.org/0009-0003-9713-7109)
[![Google Scholar](https://img.shields.io/badge/Google%20Scholar-Profile-blue)](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=JmRd6U0AAAAJ)
[![ResearchGate](https://img.shields.io/badge/ResearchGate-Profile-00CCBB)](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Dominique-Loyer)
[![Website](https://img.shields.io/badge/Website-dominiqueloyer.github.io-orange)](https://dominiqueloyer.github.io)

## 🎓 About Me

PhD Candidate in Cognitive Informatics at [Institut des Sciences Cognitives, UQAM](https://isc.uqam.ca/)

**Research Interests:**
- 🤖 Algorithmic Bureaucracy & Governance
- 🔍 Explainable AI (xAI) & Transparency
- 📊 Recommendation Systems & Collaborative Filtering
- 🌐 Digital Sociology & Information Credibility
- ⚖️ AI Ethics & Accountability

---

## 📚 Featured Publications

### 🏆 PhD Thesis
**Le Léviathan Algorithmique : pouvoir, opacité et responsabilité à l'ère de l'intelligence artificielle**  
[![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/RG.2.2.28011.20002-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.28011.20002)

### 📝 Selected Papers
- **Modeling a Hybrid System for Verifying Information Credibility** (2025)  
  [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/rg.2.2.36348.24961-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/rg.2.2.36348.24961)

- **Hybrid System Ontology for Information Source Verification** (2025)  
  [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/RG.2.2.22926.47680-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.22926.47680)

- **Evaluation of Information Retrieval Models on TREC AP 88-90** (2025)  
  [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/RG.2.2.22608.62721-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.22608.62721)

📄 [**View all publications →**](https://dominiqueloyer.github.io/papers.html)

---

## 💻 Research Projects

### 🔍 Information Credibility Verification System
A hybrid system combining predicate logic and ML/AI for assessing information source credibility.
- **Technologies:** Python, NLP, Ontologies (OWL), Machine Learning
- **Status:** Active Research
- 📂 [Repository](#) | 📄 [Paper](https://doi.org/10.13140/rg.2.2.36348.24961)

### 🌐 Web Science Ontology
OWL ontology for modeling information verification systems.
- **Technologies:** OWL, RDF, Protégé
- **Status:** Published
- 📂 [Repository](#) | 📄 [Paper](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.22926.47680)

### 🔤 Neural Machine Translation (English-Russian)
Neural machine translation system with attention mechanisms.
- **Technologies:** Python, TensorFlow, PyTorch, NMT
- **Status:** Completed
- 📂 [Repository](#) | 📄 [Paper](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.17980.55687)

---

## 🛠️ Technical Skills

**Programming Languages:**  
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=flat&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![R](https://img.shields.io/badge/R-276DC3?style=flat&logo=r&logoColor=white)
![LaTeX](https://img.shields.io/badge/LaTeX-008080?style=flat&logo=latex&logoColor=white)
![Bash](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bash-4EAA25?style=flat&logo=gnu-bash&logoColor=white)

**AI/ML Frameworks:**  
![TensorFlow](https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?style=flat&logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white)
![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white)
![scikit-learn](https://img.shields.io/badge/scikit--learn-F7931E?style=flat&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white)

**Research Tools:**  
![Zotero](https://img.shields.io/badge/Zotero-CC2936?style=flat&logo=zotero&logoColor=white)
![Obsidian](https://img.shields.io/badge/Obsidian-7C3AED?style=flat&logo=obsidian&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=flat&logo=git&logoColor=white)

---

## 📊 GitHub Stats

![Dominique's GitHub stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=DominiqueLoyer&show_icons=true&theme=radical)

[![Top Langs](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=DominiqueLoyer&layout=compact&theme=radical)](https://github.com/anuraghazra/github-readme-stats)

---

## 🎯 Current Focus

- 🔬 Completing PhD dissertation on algorithmic bureaucracy
- 📝 Publishing research on AI transparency and accountability
- 💡 Developing explainable AI frameworks for recommendation systems
- 🌍 Contributing to open science and reproducible research

---
| Year | Title | Type | DOI | Citations |
|------|-------|------|-----|-----------|
| 2025 | Le Léviathan Algorithmique | PhD projected thesis | [10.13140/...](https://doi.org/...) | ![](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?...) |


## 📫 Contact & Links

- 🌐 **Website:** [dominiqueloyer.github.io](https://dominiqueloyer.github.io)
- 📧 **Email:** votreconsultant@gmail.com
- 💼 **LinkedIn:** [linkedin.com/in/dominiqueloyer](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dominiqueloyer)
- 🔬 **ORCID:** [0009-0003-9713-7109](https://orcid.org/0009-0003-9713-7109)
- 📚 **Google Scholar:** [Profile](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=JmRd6U0AAAAJ)
- 🔍 **ResearchGate:** [Dominique Loyer](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Dominique-Loyer)

---

## 📜 License

Unless otherwise specified, research code is released under [MIT License](LICENSE).  
Academic publications follow their respective copyright agreements.

---

<p align="center">
  <i>⭐ If you find my work interesting, consider following or starring relevant repositories!</i>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=DominiqueLoyer&color=blue&style=flat-square&label=Profile+Views" alt="Profile views" />
</p>

Commit message:

Revise publications section in README.md
Updated publication section with new entries and improved formatting.

README.md, after:

# 👨‍🔬 Dominique S. Loyer

[![ORCID](https://img.shields.io/badge/ORCID-0009--0003--9713--7109-green.svg)](https://orcid.org/0009-0003-9713-7109)
[![Google Scholar](https://img.shields.io/badge/Google%20Scholar-Profile-blue)](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=JmRd6U0AAAAJ)
[![ResearchGate](https://img.shields.io/badge/ResearchGate-Profile-00CCBB)](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Dominique-Loyer)
[![Website](https://img.shields.io/badge/Website-dominiqueloyer.github.io-orange)](https://dominiqueloyer.github.io)

## 🎓 About Me

PhD Candidate in Cognitive Informatics at [Institut des Sciences Cognitives, UQAM](https://isc.uqam.ca/)

**Research Interests:**
- 🤖 Algorithmic Bureaucracy & Governance
- 🔍 Explainable AI (xAI) & Transparency
- 📊 Recommendation Systems & Collaborative Filtering
- 🌐 Digital Sociology & Information Credibility
- ⚖️ AI Ethics & Accountability

---

## 📚 Featured Publications

### 🏆 PhD Thesis
**Le Léviathan Algorithmique : pouvoir, opacité et responsabilité à l'ère de l'intelligence artificielle**  
[![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/RG.2.2.28011.20002-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.28011.20002)

### 📝 Selected Papers
- **Modeling a Hybrid System for Verifying Information Credibility** (2025)  
  [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/rg.2.2.36348.24961-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/rg.2.2.36348.24961)

- **Hybrid System Ontology for Information Source Verification** (2025)  
  [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/RG.2.2.22926.47680-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.22926.47680)

- **Evaluation of Information Retrieval Models on TREC AP 88-90** (2025)  
  [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/RG.2.2.22608.62721-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.22608.62721)

📄 [**View all publications →**](https://dominiqueloyer.github.io/papers.html)

---

## 💻 Research Projects

### 🔍 Information Credibility Verification System
A hybrid system combining predicate logic and ML/AI for assessing information source credibility.
- **Technologies:** Python, NLP, Ontologies (OWL), Machine Learning
- **Status:** Active Research
- 📂 [Repository](#) | 📄 [Paper](https://doi.org/10.13140/rg.2.2.36348.24961)

### 🌐 Web Science Ontology
OWL ontology for modeling information verification systems.
- **Technologies:** OWL, RDF, Protégé
- **Status:** Published
- 📂 [Repository](#) | 📄 [Paper](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.22926.47680)

### 🔤 Neural Machine Translation (English-Russian)
Neural machine translation system with attention mechanisms.
- **Technologies:** Python, TensorFlow, PyTorch, NMT
- **Status:** Completed
- 📂 [Repository](#) | 📄 [Paper](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.17980.55687)

---

## 🛠️ Technical Skills

**Programming Languages:**  
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=flat&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![R](https://img.shields.io/badge/R-276DC3?style=flat&logo=r&logoColor=white)
![LaTeX](https://img.shields.io/badge/LaTeX-008080?style=flat&logo=latex&logoColor=white)
![Bash](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bash-4EAA25?style=flat&logo=gnu-bash&logoColor=white)

**AI/ML Frameworks:**  
![TensorFlow](https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?style=flat&logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white)
![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white)
![scikit-learn](https://img.shields.io/badge/scikit--learn-F7931E?style=flat&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white)

**Research Tools:**  
![Zotero](https://img.shields.io/badge/Zotero-CC2936?style=flat&logo=zotero&logoColor=white)
![Obsidian](https://img.shields.io/badge/Obsidian-7C3AED?style=flat&logo=obsidian&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=flat&logo=git&logoColor=white)

---

## 📊 GitHub Stats

![Dominique's GitHub stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=DominiqueLoyer&show_icons=true&theme=radical)

[![Top Langs](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=DominiqueLoyer&layout=compact&theme=radical)](https://github.com/anuraghazra/github-readme-stats)

---

## 🎯 Current Focus

- 🔬 Completing PhD dissertation on algorithmic bureaucracy
- 📝 Publishing research on AI transparency and accountability
- 💡 Developing explainable AI frameworks for recommendation systems
- 🌍 Contributing to open science and reproducible research

---
## 📚 Publications Highlights

| Année | Titre | Type | DOI | Metrics |
|:-----:|:------|:----:|:---:|:-------:|
| 2025 | **Le Léviathan Algorithmique : pouvoir, opacité et responsabilité à l'ère de l'intelligence artificielle** | Examen de synthèse doctoral | [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/RG.2.2.28011.20002-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.28011.20002) | ![ResearchGate](https://img.shields.io/badge/RG-Reads-00CCBB) |
| 2025 | **Modeling a Hybrid System for Verifying the Credibility of Information Sources** | Preprint | [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/rg.2.2.36348.24961-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/rg.2.2.36348.24961) | ![ResearchGate](https://img.shields.io/badge/RG-Reads-00CCBB) |
| 2025 | **Hybrid System for Verifying Credibility: An Ontology** | Preprint | [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/RG.2.2.22926.47680-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.22926.47680) | ![ResearchGate](https://img.shields.io/badge/RG-Reads-00CCBB) |
| 2025 | **Evaluation of Information Retrieval Models on TREC AP 88-90** | Preprint | [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/RG.2.2.22608.62721-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.22608.62721) | ![ResearchGate](https://img.shields.io/badge/RG-Reads-00CCBB) |
| 2025 | **Development and Evaluation of an English-to-Russian Neural MT System** | Preprint | [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.13140/RG.2.2.17980.55687-blue)](https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.17980.55687) | ![ResearchGate](https://img.shields.io/badge/RG-Reads-00CCBB) |

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://dominiqueloyer.github.io/papers.html">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/📄_View_All_Publications-orange?style=for-the-badge" alt="View All Publications"/>
  </a>
</p>



## 📫 Contact & Links

- 🌐 **Website:** [dominiqueloyer.github.io](https://dominiqueloyer.github.io)
- 📧 **Email:** votreconsultant@gmail.com
- 💼 **LinkedIn:** [linkedin.com/in/dominiqueloyer](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dominiqueloyer)
- 🔬 **ORCID:** [0009-0003-9713-7109](https://orcid.org/0009-0003-9713-7109)
- 📚 **Google Scholar:** [Profile](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=JmRd6U0AAAAJ)
- 🔍 **ResearchGate:** [Dominique Loyer](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Dominique-Loyer)

---

## 📜 License

Unless otherwise specified, research code is released under [MIT License](LICENSE).  
Academic publications follow their respective copyright agreements.

---

<p align="center">
  <i>⭐ If you find my work interesting, consider following or starring relevant repositories!</i>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=DominiqueLoyer&color=blue&style=flat-square&label=Profile+Views" alt="Profile views" />
</p>
